# Loan-Optimizer
Python tool for optimizing loan repayment

## Installation
- Clone repo
- Install [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)
- ```poetry install```

## Example
In `example.py` you will find a section which looks like this:
```python
loans = [Loan(15000, 8.3),
        Loan(75000, 4.0),
        Loan(20000, 5.7)]
```

Replace these with your loan balances and annualized interest

### Different Example Analysis Runs
There are two example ananlysis functions provided, `single_run_optimize` and `many_run_analysis`
#### Single Run
If you want to figure out what the payments should be for a specific payment composition this is the analysis for you. You specify the amount you have to paydown the loans right now and the amount you want to pay monthly and it will give you how you should split those payments between your loans and how much that strategy will end up costing you in the long run. It will also generate pretty graphs `loan_balances.png` (balance over time), and `loan_payments.png` (monthly payments over time).

### Many Run
This Run method allows you to search your parameter space to figure out the best strategy for paying down your loans. It will also output a contour plot `total_payments_graph.png` which shows how the initial and monthly payments effect total payback amount.


## Usage and Limitations
This is meant as a tool to help you think about managing your loans not as instructions on definite best strategy. I cannot guarrantee that the numbers will match up with reality or than the results this tool produces are optimum. This tool only optimizes the splitting of payment, it does not generate arbitrary functions. This is means the strategies generated by the tool will not be completely optimum, but they will probably be close. #ThisIsNotFinancialAdvice
